# Quad Quietude

My generated music piece, Quad Quietude, is a relaxing song to transition listeners into a peaceful headspace.

The day after I came up with my musical idea, I was walking across the quad and heard the chapel bells, which reminded me of my musical idea; I think I might have been subconsciously inspired by this routine sound on Bowdoin's campus when brainstorming patterns on the virtual piano. I hope that this touch of Bowdoin in my song helps the students in 1101 feel connected to Bowdoin's campus during this tough, isolating semester! :)

I wanted to incorporate the key features of relaxing songs in my song. After trying out Sonic Pi's different sample and synth options, I decided on growl and ambi_glass_hum because I think they create a gentle, mellow sound that is pleasant for the ears (not abrasive/unpleasant). I also created a flowing sensation across notes and chords by experimenting with and adjusting the attacks and releases, creating a smooth effect where no one chord stands out.

The song starts by building up the amplitude of the background (ambi_glass_hum), easing the listener into the song and establishing a zen state of mind. After the background has reached an amplitude of 0.7 (where it'll stay for the rest of the song), I play my original musical idea of B4-G4-A4-E4-G4 three times. My musical idea is the core of the song and my hope is that it establishes a mood of peace and optimism. I also incorporated augmentation into my musical idea, which I had tried in the brainstorming phase, lengthening the 1st, 3rd, and 5th notes (B, A, E). Next, the program plays the transposed version of my musical idea twice. While brainstorming, I tried out transposition and really liked the sound of it. My original musical idea is transposed one octave above and played together with my original musical idea at once; my musical idea is played in two octaves at the same time. The transposition section of my song builds on the previous section (musical_idea_original), indicating the song's journey and path of growth. Then, I play a series of chords: chords_1 then chords_2. chords_1 uses the notes from my musical idea to play chords from B to E and then back up to B again while chords_2 plays in the reverse order (from E to B then back down to E again). This section of the song is an exploratory phase of the journey since it strays from the exact pattern of my musical idea, but the musical idea is still ever-present with the selection of notes used for the chords. After, I return to my original musical idea, playing it once to signal that the song is entering its concluding section and to reiterate my intended emotions of peace and optimism. Finally, the song plays the inverted version of my musical idea twice to end this journey pursuing curiosity while still staying in familiar territory for the listener.
